Language Understanding Systems Project
Student: Maria Pia Natale
ID: 189160

In the main folder there are four different directories, one for each implementation.
- "Basic and cutoff" contains all the necessary scripts for generate the basic implementation of the project, WORD to IOB, and the possibility to choose between using a frequency cut-off or not;
- "Automata" contains the scripts to generate two different transdusers, one to associate a lemma to an IOB concept and the other creates transitions from a POS tag to an IOB tag;
- "Lemma_POS_IOB" creates a transducers that associates a pair composed by
(lemma, POS tag) to an IOB tag;
- "Independent Features" is usefull to generate three different transducers:
	- WORD to LEMMA
	- LEMMA to POS tag
	- POS tag to IOB tag
	These transducers are then composed into a single transducer that takes as input a word and associates it to an IOB tag.


INSTRUCTIONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
###Basic and cutoff

The first step is to run the script "runscript.sh". 
This script needs four parameters:
1) the upperbound for the frequency cut-off ( 0 if no cut-off )
2) the lowerbound for the frequency cut-off ( 0 if no cut-off )
3) ngram order for the LM model
4) smoothing method 

After running, there will be a folder for the smoothing method used in the execution that will contain the file "automata_smoothingmethod_ngramorder"
with all the transducers generated for the test file, the "eval_smoothingmethod_ngramorder" with the evaluation for that execution and "final_smoothingmethod_ngramorder" with the test file plus a third column composed by the concept tag generated by the implementation.
In the folder "frequencies_low" there will be all these information after the frequency cut-off with a lowerbound, while the "frequencies_up" contains all the information obtained after the frequency cut-off with an upperbound.

###Automata

STEP 1: run the script "Automata.py"
STEP 2: move to the "LEMMA_IOB" folder and run the script "runscript.sh". 
This script needs two parameters:
1) an integer for the ngram order
2) the smoothing method that we want to apply

STEP 3: move to the "PosIOB" folder to run the script "runscript.sh"
As before, this script needs two parameters: the ngram order and the smoothing method.

After running, there will be the folder and all the files with the information as explained before, in the "Basic and cutoff" section.

###Lemma_POS_IOB

Run the script "runscript.sh" with two parameters, the ngram order and the smoothing method.
This script will execute the "lemmapos_iob.py" that creates the transducer and will run the script to training the test and evaluate it. 

###Independent Features

Run the script "runscript.sh", as before, with the ngram order and the smoothing method as parameters.
The script will generate the three transducers mentioned before and then it does all the commands to compile each of the transducers and compose them.
After the composition, the script "elaborator.sh" will train the test and evaluate the results.
